In this video I'll explain NSX edge high availability and sex edge is a virtual appliance that exists
in the data point.
And so it's very important that we maintain a high level of up time for the NSX edge virtual appliance
what we're going to talk about in this video is specific to NSX Hatch.
We're not going to be talking about VSE for high availability specifically but we will talk about how
vse for high availability works with NSX edge ha.
We'll take a look at how to protect the NSX edge with high availability will understand stateful high
availability and we'll also take a look at what happens when an NSX edge fails.
So the first thing to make sure that we understand is the NSX edge is in the data plane.
So for example here on the left hand side of our diagram we see a virtual machine called V.M. 1 right.
That's the virtual machine that's going to be sending some sort of traffic to an external network.
So as VM one sends traffic to an external network that traffic is going to flow through a distributed
logical router.
That's the default gateway for virtual machine one and the DLR will wow that traffic to some interface
a logical switch in this example that's a logical switch 5 0 0 0 0 2 and that logical switches connected
to the other ESX I host.
And it also has an interface that's connected to the NSX edge.
So that's how VM once traffic actually makes it out into the physical external network.
So we've got other components shown here like the NSX control or closter and it's not pictured but we've
also got NSX manager.
Those objects are not part of the data plan.
The NSX edge is the traffic from VM one is going to actively flow through the edge in order to get to
the Internet.
So of course it's critically important that we protect this virtual machine because it's our only way
out.
So we can protect the NSX and using vse for high availability we can protect it using NSX edge services
Gateway High availability and we can use a combination of those two solutions to kind of provide the
maximum level of protection.
So let's start by just explaining some of the fundamentals of high availability.
And if you're familiar with these for H.A. this might be pretty familiar to you but just in case you're
not.
Let's take a moment to quickly review how these very high availability works.
So here we see for ESX high hosts that are part of a high availability cluster and running out a host
ESX size 0 1 is a VM called VM 1.
Now if that first ESX host fails VM one is going to fail along with it or the virtual machine can't
run without its host.
But if you look down towards the bottom of the screen you notice here is V.M. once files those files
are still intact.
They're on some shared storage solution that's accessible to all of the ESX host in my closter
So when that host fails the virtual machine fails along with it.
But the files are left intact.
So because those files still exist and they're still available to our other ESX I cohosts we are able
to boot this virtual machine up on some other host.
That's what high availability does.
It doesn't give us zero downtime protection it doesn't give us 100 percent uptime.
What it does is if a host fails and the VMS on that host will also fail but they will be subsequently
booted up on other ESX host.
Now how does this apply to the ANOSIKE sketch.
Well the NSX edge is a virtual machine.
It's a virtual appliance.
So let's think about what happens here.
Here we see the NSX adj running on ESX eyes 0 4 it's running on any ESX I host and that ESX host fails
while now our egress point is gone.
We don't have the NSX anymore and there is no way for my traffic to get to the external network.
Now eventually that virtual machine will reboot on some other host because its files are still intact
right there down here on shared storage.
So it's just a matter of time before that virtual machine boots up on some other ESX host and is functional
again.
And now we're back in business.
Now this takes some time or a reboot are required here and the level of downtime that we're going to
experience with VSE for ha in most cases it's not really acceptable and we can't have five to 10 minutes
of downtime if a host fails.
We need to get that edge back up as quickly as possible.
So if you can't tolerate that level of downtime you can consider using NSX edge high availability and
with this configuration.
There's actually two edge gateways that are created.
One is an active mode and one is in standby mode and noticed they were on different data stores.
Right they don't have that risk of a single storage failure taking down both NSX edges.
These very high availability does not protect us from a storage failure.
NSX edge ha does protect the edge virtual appliance from a storage failure.
And this is the recommended configuration to place these two Reems on different data stores.
And it's also important that those data stores are shared storage right that they're accessible to all
of our ESX host.
So how does this work.
Well we have the active edge and the standby inch and they are going to regularly exchange heartbeats
and if five heartbeats are missed this triggers what is called The Dead timer.
So the dead timer expires once five heartbeats are missed.
And by default heartbeats are sent every three seconds.
So if the active edge fails the standby edge will stop getting heartbeats from it.
And within 15 seconds it'll consider that active dead and it'll take over now 15 seconds.
Even that might not be fast enough for you.
Right.
So you can actually adjust that dead timer down to as low as six seconds.
But the V.M. were recommended best practice is to not go lower than nine seconds.
Nine seconds is kind of the recommended minimum dead timer for NSX.
Adj high availability so this is going to give us a much much faster fail over than vse fair.
High Availability gave us and the good thing about NSX edge high availability is it supports all of
our state full services.
So if the standby edge has to take over there is going to be some impact there and the standby edge
actually needs to bring some services online.
When a fail over occurs.
So the active edge is going to keep that standby edge synchronized.
It's going to synchronize the important information like the forwarding table.
It will synchronize firewall connection States load balancer States NAND translations important information
like that all of those logical surfaces are synchronized between the active edge and they stand by inch.
Now that being said it's not a 100 percent stateful fail over what's really going on here is the configuration
of the active and standby edge are kept synchronized.
But things like VPN connections for example that are active at the time of that failure.
Those will need to be reestablished.
Now one other configuration that we might want to consider if we're going to deploy NSX high availability
is we may want to create an anti-fan of the role.
So for example in this scenario we've got an active NSX said you're running on a host ESX eyes or three
and we've got to stand by NSX Hadj running on host ESX 04.
And this is fine right.
This configuration looks good.
However if D.R. wrasse is configured on this cluster This may create some issues for us so would dress
or distributed resource scheduler does is it automatically moves virtual machines from host to host
it does this in order to keep the hosts load balanced.
In this scenario this could create a problem because we could potentially end up with the active and
standby edge running on the same ESX host.
And if that host were to now fail we would lose the active edge and the standby Ouch.
So we need to make sure that these two virtual machines are kept separated.
That's what an anti affinity role will do for us.
It will guarantee that the active edge and the standby edge always remain on different hosts and that
dress will never migrate those two virtual machines to the same host.
Now let's talk a little bit about how routing works.
Once we've enabled NSX had high availability because now we're going to have to NSX and gateways only
the active edge actually Peares with routers.
Right.
So for example let's assume that the active edge fails are active edge has now failed.
It's no longer available to pass traffic.
If the active edge fails the standby now needs to take over and it needs to maintain those adjacencies
that were stablished by the Active-X.
So these standby edge needs to maintain an adjacency with the distributed logical router control VM
and with the physical router
to allow this to happen we want to set our hello and dad timers to a longer interval.
We don't want our routing protocol to trigger it's dead timer.
We don't want that dead timer to expire because then let's say for example we're using OSPF if the OSPF
dead timer expires while the active is failing over to the stand by.
We're going to have to reconversion our routing tables and that's going to create an even longer outage.
So because of this the recommended dead time for OSPF is 120 seconds.
Let's get into a little bit more detail about how this fell overworks
So under normal operations the NSX edge has a IP address and a MAC address.
The activity has has the IP address and there's actually a shared IP address that the standby edge also
has however the standby edge is a different virtual machine and it has a unique MAC address.
So if the active edge fails.
Here's essentially what is going to happen.
Right.
The active edge fails.
It's gone.
It's out of the picture.
The standby edge will now issue something called a gratuitous ARP and what the purpose of the gratuitous
ARP is essentially the standby edge is saying to the physical router Hey physical router my mac address
is changed.
The IP is still the same.
The neighbor relationship is still maintained.
We're just changing the MAC address.
It'll also send that gratuitous ARP to the logical routing control VM to inform it that hey the IP remains
the same.
But I now have a new MAC address and by doing this it can maintain those neighbor relationships without
OSPF having to reroute traffic.
So again it's very important that we properly configure not only the virtual network but the physical
network as well so that during that brief downtime of let's say 15 seconds or the active just failing
over to the standby we do not want our OSPF dead timer to get triggered during that fail over process.
I want to fail over to complete what the standby adds to send out a gratuitous ARP and take over those
neighbor relationships.
Now finally let's take a look at how NSX edge high availability works hand in hand with VSE for high
availability and in this case we've got four ESX host in our environment.
We've got the active edge running on host ESX 0 3.
We've got the Stand by Edge on ESX zero for their files are on different data stores as well.
And all of our hosts have access to both of these data source.
This is important and is their recommended configuration.
So let's assume that host ESX size 0 3 fails right.
That's the host that my active NSX was running on.
So now my active ANOSIKE surge is down and the host that was on has failed and the active NSX adj is
gone well at this point NSX edge high availability will be used to fail over to that standby edge and
the standby edge will now take over.
It will issue that gratuitous ARP to take over those neighbor relationships that the other ad used to
be in charge of ADD Now these fair high availability will kick in.
Right.
My files are still available down there and data store too.
So that old Dadge can be booted up on some other host.
And when it does get booted up it's going to come in as the standby.
That's not going to preempt the other edge and take over as the active.
It'll come back as they stand by each
Sylvie's for high availability and NSX edge high availability really worked very nicely together because
the Wii's for high availability essentially serves to protect the NSX edge should some failure occur
so let's take a couple of minutes to review.
Now in this lesson we learned about the NSX and how it's in the data plan and how it's very important
that we quickly restore the NSX edges functionality.
Should a failure occur NSX edge high availability works by creating a standby I-ness Accenture.
There's going to be an active and a Stand by.
And if the act fails the stand by we'll take over the stand by detects that failure because it stops
receiving heartbeats from the act of which this failure can take anywhere from 15 seconds to as low
as six seconds.
But again the minimum configuration recommended is a nine second dead timer.
And we also saw how NSX edge high availability works hand-in-hand with very high availability to protect
the NSX Sache and restart those edge virtual machines if a host fails.